TRANSCRIPT: 2026-07-24-NSF PESOSE Q&A Discussion Webinar
============================================================
Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpuK5eV4t8k


Expected.
Dena Roffio, DoraVale, RAHXED E, We have an open room That's one o'clock.
PORTA VUM, Yes, okay, the room is open.
yes I see, people are.
LARS WOMenELS, Okay, The numbers are quickly ticking up.
LAKON LALYZAERWAND, FOOTAZE wxN, ESPJM, LARS WOMENELS, FANTASTIC.
LAKON LALYZAERWAB, So I see that where the numbers are ticking up, I want to welcome everybody to the webinar today. If you been on other webinars. I've already introduced myself. I'm the program director for the PSOS Program.
LAKON LALYZAERWAND, And on behalf of the PCOS team want to thank you for joining us today. Remind you that today. Session is been designed for Q and A largely
Expected, MediaPier, M.D.S.A. We're going to spend just a few minutes to get oriented on how we're going to do this so we can get through all of your questions or as many as we can.
Expected, M.D.S.A. As a reminder, this is about the PSOS program. I know you'll have lots of questions around a range of topics, everything from maturity of ecosystems, what do we mean by the assets, sustainability, but you're probably also going to have questions about more, I think, procedural kinds of things like how do you submit to NSF?
What is the team makeup need to be on the I-Corps? So we've got a strategy to get through these things.
Reed is here with me and he's going to go through the Q&A box and he's going to help call that and triage. So, one down now, just next.
Just to remind you, our program page and our QR code. If you connect to this, you'll be able to get to the mailbox and other resources that are posted to the page.
Dr. Amy Moore, Dt.C. As I promised, we'll just talk a little bit about what we're going to go through today, how we're going to go through it, the welcome I just gave you.
Dr. Amy Moore, Dt.C. I'll try not to talk too fast, but I do want to get through as many questions as possible.
Dr. Amy Moore, Dt.C. We'll talk about the format and how we're going to get through and triage all of these questions, and we'll start and kick everything off with a seed question, and then we're going to open it right up for attendee Q&A and then we have a couple of comments in the closing and next steps.
Expected terms and the next slide Expected terms and the next slide Expected terms and the next slide As I mentioned Reid going to be scanning the Q queue That is in your Q box if you will We going to try to answer we will be answering those programmatic and strategic questions those that are conceptual in nature and we going to save those instructional type questions in a separate webinar
and I'm going to ask you to ask you to ask questions to ask questions to ask questions and ask questions to ask questions to ask questions.
And I think it's simple and we think that's going to help us really get to the crux of what you're asking. Sometimes it's straightforward, other times it's not. It also really helps us see where the community is, who we have here and what kinds of questions are being raised.
It's an income statement statement that we have our staff here on LinkedIn and SAP, Skelly Cachy.
But if you're new or not, it's a very fair way of thinking about what's, you know, what's needed to be?
If you're trying to get those, you can get the right, right?
Board of Education, which makes this more difficult.
It definitely helps us sort through what you might be thinking to offer up a broader response.
As we mentioned hold for future webinars or the mailbox questions around proposal submission and Merit Review, we will have a webinar for that that's specific for that budget and costs we're also going to have a separate webinar that's included in that.
Expected terms, team members, eligibility, those kinds of more specific things that are in the solicitation.
All right, so we're going to start with a seed question to give you a sense of the kind of questions that we're hoping to get through today.
What it will also do is give Reed a chance to scan the mailbox as others are trying to put questions in there.
Expected DeepSeek SkellyTracker Rheed if you wouldn mind putting that tags in there and dump it in the mailbox so that they can see that again so they reminded of what they should be how they should be tagging Okay will do All right while he doing that Expettoch Exxo Exxo Exxo
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Exxo.
Expected terms, and there are questions about, is there a minimum size, so questions about contributors, maintainers, and how that also relates. So I think these two are very similar in nature.
And as we think about this, I don't think the box is obscuring the view, right? I can't see.
Ine, I'm going to take care of my team.
What we have done is draw this map. If you have reviewed for us before, you probably have seen this and thought about it. If you haven, this is new. So I'll give everybody a minute to look at it.
To the left-hand side of the slide, a situation where you have a very nascent, new, ecosystem.
We have overlaid your asset or your tool on top of this.
Expected, a new ecosystem that is on the relatively newer side. As you move to the right, this becomes an open ecosystem and the target that we're looking for all of you guys to work with.
We've also then across the top of that is bracketed where a track one would fit. So those are track ones are 300,000.
Expected. These are newer ecosystems, perhaps tools that would not be fully self-sustaining. Aspects of it are not fully mature yet. And, as you move to the right, then, we think about Track 2. These are ecosystems that, where you have all of your plans in place, you've got probably a much more mature tool, your thinking around it is much more mature.
and you heading for that self that NSF is looking for So what do we require Track one and track two you both have to have a project that is already publicly available It got to and there should be an artifact around that Our preference is it already available under an open source license and often times right there devil is in the detail so this is what we are looking for
There may be particulars that when you get into something that we are willing to entertain.
Okay. So the last sentence is really important. Your products should really be oriented around meeting a societal or national need.
StemmLater, RTMPose, NubBase, Water Ctireku, ICST, CTLT, RTMP, MTX, CTLT, ACTIVITY, SCARTL
Expected terms, and you can convince NSF and the reviewers that the OSC is the way to go, and you really do have developers and maintainers, then you're moving right into a Track 2. We expect that in both cases that you'd be able to articulate your plans and your rationale in some sort of detail. So we need the detail around it for the particular technology or domain that you're working in, and not just generalities about it.
Expected terms:"
Mike Rieke, Ph.D.: So, you're looking further into that project, we understand that we are looking for projects along the continuum. we are looking to have a portfolio that has everything from really nascent to things that are closer to self-sustaining.
Mike Rieke, Ph.D.: And so if we have a portfolio that has a portfolio that has everything from really nascent to things that are closer to self-sustaining.
Eccedes, DR.D. The same concept.
I want to ask them in the chat and I will be able to say something that I'm hoping for.
Today we have some basic development in the SAP IOP organization.
I think so.
I'm going to pause there and I am going to ask Ed, what kind of questions.
This was for just seeding if you read it.
and the other one.
So I'm going to ask Reed what kind of questions.
So this was really for just seating, if you remember, rather than giving everybody sort of a series of pre-prompted questions.
So, Reed, what do we have up first?
Well, we already have about 50 questions.

Reid, what kind of questions? So this was really for just seating, if you remember, rather than giving everybody sort of a series of pre-prompted questions. So, Reid, what do we have up first?
Reid, well, we already have about 50 questions in the chat. A number of them are about what you were just talking about, so I'm hoping that what you just covered about the distinction between Track 1 and Track 2 answered a lot of the questions that people were asking.
and I'm trying to find some other topics to cover. So if you want to continue with another question, and I'll pick out a couple in the next couple minutes.
And I see Ashley's joined us, so she might actually be able to help you out. You've got an extra set of hands. She's also done this.
Okay, we went through, so we're just going to give Reid a minute to get through the many questions that are coming up, and Ashley, maybe you could give him a hand.
We get a lot of questions around sustainability. What does that really mean in this context?
I will just say that groups often time focus on solely the financial component of that.
And we want you to think about sustainability. Here's our answer. There'll be a couple of slides, it was too much to put on one slide. It's the capacity to continue the effort that you're pursuing.
The support is just talking about funding in this study and is just generating revenue.
She will see a lot of stuff in part of the project.
Those are the things that you expect to do with funding, any business management, or, you know,
it doesn't necessarily have to think in terms of just the finances and just generating revenue.
Exected terms of the
Expected terms you know you have to start out with a meaningful problem and that going to attract organizations and communities and they going to want to That the value proposition Hopefully they going to want to use it they going to want to contribute to it and they going to want to support it You need an organization so you need somebody or more than one person who ultimately is going to help lead this and help execute those essential functions like communities or compliance within whatever structure you have set up Partnership development and community support
Expected, Maintainer Well-Being from the Linux Foundation. I really like this and thinking about this is how are you going to really think about those maintainers that are helping you
Expected, Maintainer Well-Being and contributors and not overextending their efforts so that you do have long term sustainability. So you want to think about what those good practices are looking at the documentation, transparency, mentoring, so that you have this continuous pipeline of maintainers and contributors.
Expected, MediaPier, D'EepSem, Dt. And the idea is to be dependent on one person or the original lead institution. This is a legacy to build beyond that initial group.
Expected, MediaPier, Dt. The technical we can't ignore that. So the assets not going to stay stagnant as technologies change.
Ecosystem changes, you have to keep up with that through technical updates. That's part of your sustainability dimension. Of course, governance, roles, making decisions, how is that all done, conflict resolution. And then lastly, I put this because we do understand there's finances around that. So as you think about sustainability, it's easy to get locked in on those finances and budgets and cost, but there are all these other dimensions to it. They all work together.
And so having the students being and you can keep the data from the different cultures.
And so their feedback I have to also provide them with hope to help and make sure your feedback after that you're you're getting the feedback on them.
In.
All right, do we have a question from the audience there's my 2c questions.
and the other questions about team makeup and the distinction between different roles whether somebody should be a co on the proposer or play a different role in the proposal And then also if it matters if there a mix of institutions covered by the team members on a proposal or if they need to be all from one side The
Yeah, what I'm going to do is I'm going to answer partial, a part of this, give you some things to think about. But the details around this, I think what we'll do is put that into the webinar on August 11th because this is, it'll get quite detailed and I think it's helpful to look at the solicitation as you think about it. So your team makeup over and above I-Corps and how you get the work done is important to think about. So I'm glad somebody asked or many people asked this question. Can it be distributed across organizations? Absolutely.
SkellyTuron, L.A. The roles as with regard to the award itself and who has to execute some of those administrative functions plays into this as well as the work of the ecosystem.
SkellyTuron, L.A. This gets into the roles and responsibilities. Who is going to do what in the ecosystem? How are you going to develop your governance structure? Where does the PI, the proposal versus the the team lead play into this?
Expected terms. So the short answer is that all of these are very, very important, whether they're a PI or co-PI. First of all, you have to look at the responsibilities for an NSF award. So if you take on that role, if you're positioned to take on that role, meaning that you work for the institution or you have, because PISOs has some requirements as well, then you've got some additional duties with regard to the award itself.
Expected, Mestri Mathews, Deads, Dere EFERT, MNB-T. Geneika Chaharay , RROSA, MNB-D. GENEZA PYAHARAY , RROUX, ENT, ENT, GAENDI PYAHARAY YER HANDT, MNB-'IN NICOPA CETORIN EFERT, MNB-UMB, O-PALGO CETORIN CHOI OF ENT. We can do it out. We can do it out. Some don't do it. We can do it into a lot of things. Some students pay a lot of things to buy.
Expected terms, and of the board of directors, R&B, OPS, DeepSor, OPE, R&B, OPS.
Expected students and staff members that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that they will say.
And the rest of the board.
It will say the students will say we are the ones that we have the two separate for our board of directors.
And this they will say the NIC.
And this is the NIC There are a couple of questions about international collaboration For instance whether funding an international collaborator to travel to a workshop is allowed
and also whether licensing a piece of software from a company based outside the US for technical
work is allowed.
Expected, MediaPier, R.D. Yeah, so let me start with a simpler piece of this, and maybe we talked about this under in another webinar. Perfectly fine to have external collaborators that are working internationally. The money from PISOs can't, from the NSF award can't flow to them. You can still have collaborators and there's no reason you can't, but your money can't flow to them either directly, obviously, to NSF, so we wouldn't award, make an award to an institution, or through a relationship
Expected terms.
Expected terms is the same reason, you see, as a provider, would find their way to be paid.
And that would not be a provider, or a provider, would be responsible for any provider, or whether they would be a provider of those, we would have to look into that.
We would have to provide you with, you know, a provider of the provider from the proposal itself.
Myrra Hsieke, Nellie Rsieke, Nellie A.
T. Amy.
E. J. JayarSieck, Nellie R. Laird, R. Laird, R. H. Go ahead and we can push through, too, too, so I mean it's the same.
E. J. JayarSieck, Nellie R. Laird, R. A. Are you sure you do have any in the space.
E. J. JayarSieck, Nellie R. A. R. So I'm going to ask whoever put that question together, if you could give us a little more details around that so we can come back with something more robust.
E. J. JayarSieck, Nellie R. A. R. Another question is about or there are a couple of questions, I think about.
the application count as an open source product is one example. And I think there's another question along those lines. So if you could just talk a little bit more about kinds of open source things that can form the base of an ecosystem beyond software.
Sure. And I'm trying to find, I put a list of, I'm losing my mind, I put a list of exemplar institutions together to help people think about this. But in this solicitation we talk about
and we talk about open source hardware, we talk about platforms.
And I know you might think, well, that's a software.
I will say, sort of broadly thinking about this, is it coming out of the R&D and engineering community?

about open source hardware. We talk about platforms. And I know you might think, well, that's a software. I will say sort of broadly thinking about this, is it coming out of the R&D and engineering community? And what is it serving? If the specification in and of itself is like a standard, the answer is probably not. That's not sufficient enough. I would also ask you to think about the intellectual merit. What knowledge might this be moving forward?
And what communities within a particular domain or beyond a particular technical domain might you be serving? So I think my answer is we're not seen and we have not supported the development of particular standard or specification. That's not sufficient. This program, we're not building standards.
Expected terms of that's what I was thinking for a huge amount of money is worth it in the state's house with new and new and new and new ways of figuring out who will be a student and also going to have to deal with the student and being an individual and student and be able to do something and that's being able to do something that's what I'm talking about.
Expected terms of being an individual and who need a student, you would know that you'd be able to do something that you'd be able to do something that's I'd be able to do something that's cool.
He expected, S&Px, Milded by Q&S Ns and they were getting with their own personal benefits.
He and SkellyFTRA, Ph.D.: Right. So, um, go down one.
He expected, S&Px, Milded by Q&S Ns and I.
He also became a successfulnery teacher in place in general.
And that is kind of the way you can see that and if there's a situation.
And then we need them one secondhand one just to go away with.
And the history is probably more effective and important to get you questions and check.
Expected terms, as well as the topical distribution. I've listed a couple here to give you a feel for this. I will say it probably feels a lot like software, but beyond this, you can start looking at like manufacturing practices or documentation or designs. So we are taking a broad look at these kinds of things.
Elizabeth Prichardine- Something we have a Q and A list that we're going to try to get to and get it updated. But if you've got a platform and you've got people just uploading raw data that is not an open source ecosystem, and is I would ask you that
Elizabeth Prichardine What intellectual knowledge is being moved forward with the upload of raw data in and of itself Elizabeth Prichardine Probably probably can support that now If that data is being uploaded with models let say that starts to then you can talk about
Expected, N.F.E.R.I.S. the broadening, right, broader impacts not only within their domain or with other domains. So the way to think about it is with NSF's two merit review criteria in the context of that intellectual merit. What does that bring?
Expected, and broader impacts. These are really great examples. I don't know that I can trace anything back to NSF in all of these. We probably can at some point, but I think they give you a feel for it. When we get the slides to you, you can link on these things. I will also encourage you just to do a search. Good examples of R&D-like open source ecosystems, and you'll get a whole host of hopefully examples that will help you get your head around it.
So that was a long-winded answer, but I hope it gets to what the person or persons were asking. Next up.
There are quite a few questions about ICOR for PISOs. What the requirement is, how to plan for it. Also, what the distinguishing is of ICOR for PISOs versus other ICOR programs.
Tim Stratton- So if you could just talk a little bit more about how the I-Corps requirement will play into track one awards. I think that'll be helpful for a lot of people.
Jane Nelson- Sure I'm gonna save all of these what I'm going to consider methodological the methods piece right around for this August 11th right who should be on that. So please join us on that.
Jane Nelson- I'll say that because that information is in the solicitation, but I know sometimes hearing it from NSF is helpful.
So what's the difference between NSF I-Core that many people hear us talk about for small businesses versus I-Core for PSOS?
So that, I'm going to oversimplify it, but the small business is about commercialization. That is the target.
So everything around those discussions and the work that those teams do is about customer discovery for the purposes of commercialization.
What I'm setting up, I'm setting up things like the Pseus program, by trying to sell it as the last thing.
Within Pseus then you might commercialize ultimately but you building an ecosystem Not only is our language different but why you might be looking at not just customers maintainers users contributors very very different So everything framed within the PSOS program building an ecosystem versus commercializing your product So we done quite a bit of work NSF has is to have that syllabus and that work under I tailored to the PSOS program So if you done I before and you saying I done this but I did it for a small business I think what you find is that the focus
Expected terms is very different. It's on building that ecosystem, how to understand how to do those customer interviews so that you can get to understanding who are your users, who are your maintainers, and what's the need, which could be, may be, different than if you're looking to commercialize the product in and of itself.
So I'm going to save the details unless Ashley or Reid, they have enough time to get in there and start populating those, but the details of what the team makeup needs to look like, all of that stuff is in the solicitation.
Deree, we can cover that on August 11th or if we have time today.
and so and Ashley feel free as reads like looking to if you have a question that you want to open up your mic, and ask feel free to do that as well.
Ashley Leiboldt, I think a few people have asked about whether collaborators can be on a team from a for profit company.
EliaPirac, SkellyTracker, RRB.
Expected terms, with a re-eco system?
The answer is yes. The primary purpose of this can't be for making money only.
You might have a for-profit company that has an entire set of other business lines. That's perfectly fine. But the ecosystem in and of itself and what NSF is wanting to pursue is not about just solely making money. If that's the case, you probably want to focus on SBIR.
Expected, M.G.H.E. And then there have also been a few questions about security, I think, mostly related to track three, but also how much safety and security should be integrated into the proposals for track one and two.
Expected, M.H.E. But one particular, so that's the broad topic, one particular question is about track three proposals, how should they balance novel security research with applying
Expected a model Omin DeepSere Expected a model OSE SkellyTampe OST Expected a model OSE A TSE Degas Degas T0 Cbj OTHER HACKERS DEB OST REESE ISSUED WITH OUR CAUC Susan Murto Ops Dekki Vance System System System Designer RCA PCOE R or RSA R CES Vance System Designer R or RFA RUXS EVAN SME PEDERANY SLATS ESS REPUBLIC ASSERVATIVES TKC SV ARC ACPIC BOTTOM ASSERVATIVES SCE BABY BARRERTE SSL OBS PEDERANY SLI THINK SEE NO CRIMSS IN FRCARD SO GOP WILL GO TO CREATE REPUBLIC
Ecosystem Building. We do want to hear about what that asset is and you need to convince the users and sorry the reviewers and NSF why this asset. Why does it matter? And then there's a question around there is a data management security plan. So you've got to be thinking about how is this going to work, right? This is not an R&D proposal. So spending a lot of time on that asset
Expected terms, you're going to spend six pages out of your seven, you're probably in the wrong program. We want to hear the ecosystem more broadly, but the asset around which you're going to build that. So I'll give you an example, I think it's probably most obvious. If you're working in the biomedical field and you say nothing about security and privacy, that's going to be a problem.
For this research to help people understand what they're doing.
Because those are sensitive kinds of data points.
If you're working in software or some sort of data.
The reviewer is going to ask that question, is, why is there no discussion of security?
If you're thinking about a Track 3, the focus there, it's not a continuation of Track 2.
The focus there is that class of vulnerabilities more broadly.
Expected terms, which are very effective, is certainly all right- so with the
Ttoward security, and unfortunately, this stuff proliferates pretty fast in the open source environment. So the answer is it doesn't have to be novel, but you're going to have to convince the reviewers why this matters, right? If there's more novel techniques that can do a better or have greater impact, so you might raise that and say, well, these are old techniques. And given all of the new changes, especially around AI, these old techniques may no longer hold.
So you've got perhaps the additional burden of acknowledging whether that approach to those

And given all of the new, the changes especially around AI, these old techniques may no longer hold. So you've got perhaps the additional burden of acknowledging whether that approach to those longstanding problems is still a reasonable one.
Christine DiCocco, Werenc, Osten, LOR off, Dever, TEP, KCB, SQAQ, NETA, RISD, LOR off, Dever, TEP, KCB, CHC, CLO, RISD, LH, Dever, TEP.
Christine DiCocco, Werenc, Ops, Dever, TEP, KCB, CZ, CZ, CZ, CZ, CZ, ETE, FUBU, LA ZE, FACE, FACE, FACE, XOD, LOR off, Dever, TEP, KCB, BXCO, Werenc, DELA, RISD, LOR off, DPO's CLOP.
And then, I think, we have a lot of folks who are going to ask questions about this question.
Yes. Lawrence, can you speak to sustainability and what does the program mean by sustainability?
Sure. So I'm going to share this again, in case I can pull it up.
I go back to our slides, and these are the seed questions.
I'm sure, Matt.
EXe is obviously interested in those creativity dimensions.
Think about it in your ecosystems' capacity to continue what it needs to do to fulfill that effort in future, so what does that mean?
These are the things you need to think about.
You've got to continue to solve meaningful problems, and you're going to attract other organizations or communities if you have those meaningful problems.
Expected terms, Maintainers. These are the individuals that are going to be in there, especially if you're in software. They're going to be working on the code and making those changes once approved.
How are you going to really think about their well-being? If you don't, they're not going to be around forever.
Community You got to have a pipeline So you can start with a group but it doesn continue on its own without work So you got to have both users contributors maintainers It a continuous cycle and we mentioned this leaders and I can say this enough Sharon Clark Is you really do want to build a plan that moves beyond the one or two people on the award
Sharon Clark- This is about building an ecosystem and especially beyond the institution. How that's done, what the rules are and the structure around that is part of what you need to solve. And of course, the technical piece of this
Expected terms. The asset itself, it can't say stagnant, otherwise it becomes irrelevant. You need rules and decision making processes, conflict resolution, your governance, what does that look like? That's probably going to evolve as well in the long term. And then lastly is you need financial and operational. So money does matter. But if you've got some of these other pieces in place, for example, a broad set of institutions, that amount of money, as an example, where you get your money may change.
ChArUco, Niedromos so sustainability is about the capacity to continue the work, and theses are dimensions that you must think about and incorporate into the plan.
A2 OTHER TOPICS THAT I'VE SEEN COME UP. AND THEN WE'LL GO TO THE OTHER.
Andy Payland, RPC-Rb1, CZRacer, MT&R, RPC-Rr4, RTMPose, DT, DT, EZ, ASKIEF, SkellyCam, SKEllyCam, SKEllyCam.
Expected terms of what a good size of a team would be, depending on the track, and how to decide how big to make the team. So if you can speak a little bit to that.
Sure. I think as we talked about earlier, there are some responsibilities around the award itself. The scope of work that's being proposed, the kind of work that gets needs to get done. And then we talked about sustainability. So it's probably there. If you're looking for a team that's going to be
Dynas, Cahiyna, TyeC, Ferji, Cahiyna, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC,- Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TyeC, Mendoza, TeC, Mendoza,
Expected R proposal you might submit to some other directorate So if you thinking about things like well a PI and a bunch of grad students or undergraduate students we want you to think differently and we talk about it in the August 11th So size matters You got to convince NSF why the size that you selected is appropriate So if you working in a very new space and you trying to get it set up and you got targets that you want to grow your user community by the end of year one by 75 your team going to have to be bigger or you going to have to be pulling in more organizations So it all depends on A what your targets are
The next steps are, where do you start from? And where do you want to be? If you're at track two, you should have some of these things already established. So your team might actually be bigger by nature, right? You already have other organizations involved. You have other users, maintainers. So it really does. The details matter is where are you starting? Where do you want to be? What is appropriate? Somebody's going to ask me what's an appropriate number for to target. It's an appropriate number for your discipline, your
Daphic, CfW, RbZ, EXeep, RbZ, FTE, FTE, RbZ.
EXeep, BG-PPE, RbZ, EXeep, MEEK.
EXeep, FTE, MES-PPE, CSR, RbZ, EXeep, IRBZ, MEEK.
EXeep, FTE, MEEK, AVCE, MEEK.
Anna Kovistiski, SkillyTurak, A.D.C. You've also got to convince NSF and the reviewers that your targets are appropriate.
Anna Kovistiski, SkillyTurak, So, as you're thinking about where you want to go and the growth that you want to achieve that you're going to put into your plan, if you're only going to grow your community by 10% or 5%, then you've got to justify why.
Anna Kovistiski, SkillyTurak, Because we may have other teams that say, we're going to grow it by 50%.
Anna Kovistiski, SkillyTurak, So, you really do all of these pieces fit together and that's why answering this with numbers like just a random number.
Expected terms, and the number doesn't make sense. You've got to put the whole package together, think about where you're starting, where you're going, and why you're going there. And then you've got to look at the landscape and convince yourself that you understand where this particular ecosystem sits as you propose.
and Expected terms and other folks who are still going to be able to use the general public to be able to submit their questions.
I think that I think that I would like to see some of the questions that count or how you how to make the link between an open source ecosystem and national need
Sure, I mean, maybe the simplest answer to think about what are those big big societal national needs.
Expected.
We've covered this in conversations in some of our orientation panels.
I would encourage you to go out there and read things like the administration's priorities.
You probably have read it somewhere.
It's a framing question, right?
So if you're talking about the localized needs in your domain, you're probably not going
big enough.
So as an example, I'll use this again, is the biomedical.
You've got, let's say, you're gonna produce or you have some asset and you think it's gonna
Susan M.D., who is an expert for the Q&A in the USA, and is able to be helpful localized because of your community. I would ask you broader impacts, how does this map onto the national scene or the national needs across the United States?
Susan M.D. That framing and how you think about it, there are lots of sites, you can look at the White House priorities, you can look at MSL sites that really help you frame thinking about it. But connecting the dots between that bigger national need and that bigger societal need
is an instructor for students, and at a student's computer at a student at their student's online and they offer questions and other folks over this past the next three days, and so they're all done.
And now there's a person behind what the student is calling about, why they are the students.
The professor as director at the student at the student of the department and also about what students need and how you're thinking about it at a localized
And so we have to see a couple of questions about the letters of collaboration, and you know what sort of entity, and and what sort of commitment in a letter of collaboration makes it a useful or helpful one.
I'm going to pump that one to our August 11th that is very much outlined in our solicitation.
So, Ashley, I don't know if you're able to get that and maybe dump it in there, so users can read it or attendees can read that.
I want to make sure that we're covering some of these bigger, bigger questions. I'm going to look at my list as well.
Laurence, I was going to say for those participants who have really mature ecosystems established,

sure that we're covering some of these bigger, bigger questions.
I'm going to look at my list as well.
Laurence, I was going to say for those participants who have really mature ecosystems established with many industry members, they're trying to understand where their home is amongst the tracks.
Expected, do you feel that their ecosystem would be a strong foundation for a PESOS proposal, provided that the project clearly describes how it will expand into a sustainable, broader, open source community with external contributors and governance, or should they be, you know, I guess they're trying to ascertain, are they appropriate for the award given the maturity of their ecosystem?
LACSONN CONZO HATTER, P.D.L.E.L.A.W. STGEU CABONE, SKBY AND SENSE OF HIGHLISTERs ARIP, RISCAP, DETECIUM PEREZ, 3PO BEP TRE A WEAR RISCAPS BECAUSE WE HAVE BEEN QUOTED WITH THOSE.
LACSONN CONZO HATTER, P.D.L.E.L.A.W. STABEWYT, LENDY ZHMANK, ULS TRAINY, A DRY YORSTZER BOTH TERRICAL WORLD LEVEL.
LACSONN CONZO HATTER, P.D.L.A.: AT NEN HOURP LAMES IS SOME OF THE NEVERAGE.
R
SkellyForge, SkillyTracker, RRX, RRX, SKlyForge, SkillyTracker, RRRX, RRX, SkellyTracker, RRX, HORR, RRX, RRX, SKLYB, NN MORTLENNUCCI, Skm,CV, HORRVORS, HORRVORS, SP?
Dithi Brake, S&YD, OBS, D.S. And now, you have to think about the EX with a different individuality. So I would say, if you're fit into that on the far right hand side. I'm going to guess you're probably on the far right hand side that you'd got to ask yourself, what is the asset that I'm bringing forward?
Dithi Brake, S&YD, OBS, D.S. And how does that change what we're doing? You already have an organization, you still need to think about how does that organization really need to change in order to support that asset.
I think it's not a direct work that the data needs to happen.
So, to me, to my point, for most of you, there's an additional awareness.
How many new users are there? How are you going to advance knowledge and have broader impacts?
If you find yourself I think a general rule of thumb is it just be funding it but if it really a new asset and you really see an opportunity to open up
Expected, open up a new area, advanced knowledge in a new area, or really broaden the impacts and it's going to require thinking about your users differently, maintainers differently, you're probably then
Expected terms, if you're not eligible, I'd probably still put you kind of in the middle ground. You could make the argument for one or two, but it's still like, how are you going to tease out the difference between operations today and what you're doing and what you're proposing?
KeniaRamyn Cahilloo, Coffey, SkellyTX、 Q&A, PSQGD, EASASA, Q&A, PSQGD, EASA, Q&A, PSQRT, EASA, Q&A, PSQS, YOO, CO& A, PSQC, DET.
Expected terms, and if you have to, you know, I know that reviewers would ask an NSF, what is the difference between what you're doing today and what you're proposing, and is it distinctly different enough intellectually and with regard to broader impacts to warrant a proposal or an award.
But I think it's fair game.
That was a good question. What else do we have?
I've seen a couple questions around whether an open source ecosystem should be built around a single open source asset or tool or whether a suite of open source products would make a good open source ecosystem as a collection.
I think you can make the case for both. We don't have a recipe.
Expected terms. We're all going to ask, though, the question is how is this long-term going to be good enough to move knowledge forward? Maybe you do have an asset. Can you continue this long-term? Can it become sustainable? You're going to need to make the case that the broader impacts are going to go beyond likely the domain that you're in, or maybe it's so novel that there's still a lot of issues or challenges to solve.
Expected terms, you know, looking at research and some of the research that you're going to be thinking about if you're only going to go with one asset, why that's sufficient.
Versus is it going to be convincing? Can we start out with one or two and can we work our way towards more? Should we be working our way towards one or two?
In your thought process, this is where your evaluation comes into play is as you think about
Paulie Shealessi, DC, BG.
Pausano, Ose, DeepSeggo, So, Skelly, CpI, Skally, DeepSeggo, Yeah.
Paulie Shealessi DCM Maree Ski Thank you Paulie Shealan DCM Paulie Shealan DCM And you can see when you in the career strategy you have to make sure that you do you know that the right growth pattern So there a bunch of homework that you need to do which is helpful to the proposal anyway to establish where your assets and where your ecosystems fit
I know before we leave today, I do want to make sure that we get to this question around asset versus ecosystem, but continue. I want to see what the rest of the questions coming forward are.
Steve Chichette, New York, T3GCat, NDR, RTMPose, CSC, NDR, RTMPose, ESD.
George Husschenlenon, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDR, NDR, RTMPose, OSCV, D.D.
George Husschenlen, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes.
George Husschenlen, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, MSCV, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP ETH, SDRP Keyes, S DRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes, SDRP Keyes.
Expected, MediaPier, R.C.E.M.A.L.D.: Yes, so I don't have it handy, but I can see it in my head and I'll also just try to describe it because I think it's a relatively simple concept.
Expected, MediaPier, R.C.E.M.A.L.D.: If you've got a single individual or maybe two people that are working on what I'm going to call this asset many, many software programs, it could be open source hardware, it could be a new workflow in a bigger schema.
Susan Cahillmann, L1MT, LHCA, CDEBP 3D6oF MQR L1MT, MQR APR.
Susan Cahillmann, LHCW OPE, JnGO FI.
Susan Cahillmann, LHCW OPE, JnGO FI.
Susan Cahillmann, LHCW OPE, JnGO FI.
Susan Cahillmann, LHCW OPE, JnGO FI.
Susan Cahillmann, LHC, DeepSesek, MPH, DeepSesek, CHC.
Susan Cahillmann, LHCW OPE, JnGO FI.
Susan Cahillmann, LHCW, JnGO FI.
Susan Cahillmann, LHCW OPE, JnGO HACG.
Expected, Neskub, Ops.
SKEllyCam, SkellyCam, SkellyCam, And so will continue that next slide.
Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia, Zeeby, Nessia.
So if you find yourself with some sort of technology, NSF has other programs for that. Some of these I'd have to do some homework on as we've, NSF of course has really reconfigured itself, but we know for sure for example in our computer information and sciences engineering group, our science group, they have an infrastructure program that focuses most solely on these kinds of things, that's software and that's perfectly fine if that's where you want to be.
Extra- But if you come to us with just the asset and you want to move that forward that's not for Pisa's. We don't fund development,
Extra- Maybe some minor things if it's required for growth.
Extra- But definitely not the R&D behind a particular piece of infrastructure.
Extra or asset but as you start to think about governance and you talk about maintainers and users and putting it out there in the open source Now you moving into the open source ecosystem realm
So another topic that's come up is what if there's an open source product that is most open source but does depend on some bit of software that's licensed or that's not open source.
Could that still form an open source ecosystem around even though there will be some dependency on not open source products?
So I'm not really sure I understand the question. If it's a request about can I leverage an existing open source ecosystem if I have a product or an asset, can I use their open source ecosystem to further my asset? Is that acceptable?
Expected, Zephyr, Tfshk, SkellyTracker, Nesaf.
Pfft Shukandu, Ph.D.: The data is so, so it's a big issue, but there's a big issue, that's not a big issue.
Pfft Shukandu, Ph.D.: So the data is now really complicated.
Pfft Shukandu, Ph.D.: Well you'd have to ask the open source ecosystem if that's acceptable and the reviewers in NSF would ask, how are you growing that ecosystem, so we would expect to see some sort of collaboration.
If you show no collaboration between the two, then it's going to be hard to convince reviewers that you have actually that you're not working in isolation. Right? You won't be able to move this thing forward without getting others involved and getting an agreement on it. So, Reid, I'm not sure which one it was.
I I yeah, I didn't. I may not have expressed it that well. I think it's more the latter. Like if there's some dependency of the open source tool on some of your external bit of technology or software.
and the software, whether that can still be eligible for a PISO project.
Sure. Let me just respond to you. We've seen this before. So this is a perfect example where we would expect to see a collaborator letter. You've reached out to that entity where you've got this dependency and you're working together and you say, we understand there's a dependency here. We're all going to try to work together to move this forward.
So, in the absence of that, the reviewers, and this is what happened to an example we had, the reviewers just were not convinced that there was any kind of ability to move the product forward into an open source ecosystem because they had this strong dependency, but no evidence to show that there had been any kind of collaboration or effort to figure out how to work with this dependency or work within what was required.

Expected, MediaPier, RRB, TAR.
We have about 10 minutes left in the hour, and I know you wanted about five minutes to close, so we have time for a few more questions.
One other is, you know, there's a handful of questions about, you know, could the open source ecosystem be about this domain or this domain?
So I just wanted to open it rather than ask about each specific one, about the sort of diversity of topics and domains that, you know, that these awards may be supporting and open source ecosystems could be about.
Expected, RTMPose, Degrees, MD, Sure, so maybe the simplest way to answer this is, first of all, NSF really takes a broad view on what an open source ecosystem and the assets that could be. We're not strictly confining people to software, as you've heard. We also pretty wide in accepting most domains. It really does need to come out of our traditional R&D or STEM field. That is where NSF works. Right? So, the framing is going to be important.
Dr.
I will speak from some experience that we've had in our biomedical and give you a little bit of an NSF insight on this or perspective on this. If you're working in the biomedical field and you speak in terms of medical solutions,
Dr.
It starts to feel like you're submitting an NIH proposal and you're solving some of the problems that that agency would solve. So you want to think about the technology itself.
Dr.
EmaoCap, SkellyTrader, MD, What is in its most fundamental form? And how can it move the field forward? Is it biology that you're trying to move forward? And if that is, speak and frame it in terms of that. So we've had some of these and we spent quite a bit of time really thinking about the review panel, thinking about what is the technology that they have and do we have a framing issue?
J. Tahehawba, DEepSeg, SkellyTorah, Meme Balescu, QAdHlac SkellyTorah, Meme Balescu, QAdHlac SkellyTorah, Meme Balescu, QAdHlac Trombone, QAthlac Skhyndane, QAdaaSx, QAdHlac Skiyndane, QAdHlac in QAdHlac Skimane, QAdHlac FB4QAQ hEaqlac Skiyndane, QAdHlac Skiyndane, QAdHlac SktsQMQMNH GUEZFGOAQSQQMNH FBPYKKLU Meme Balescu. QAdHlac Skiyndane, QAdHlac
Expected terms I would say it an issue But pure medical is in and of itself from a domain standpoint that does start to kind of teeter on where NSF might find it find a problematic So think about the framing the words that you using think about the NSF typical directorates or the places where we really serve right our math physical sciences our geosciences and biology and frame things within that context and think about the broader impacts and what other domains but we pretty wide open on that
I don't know if you can give me an example of something that might seem on the edge. Can you find one that might be a bit?
Well, you did mention healthcare, there were at least a couple of people mentioned healthcare as topics.
Right. So think about, if you're familiar with NIH, the quandary that puts NSF in is funding things, projects that might be oriented towards NIH programs versus NSF.
Expected, who is currently currently working in a system of healthcare, OAPC, Expected, and Hs and I think, one of the things I think there's a lot of work, but it's really getting you to think about what that technology is and how does it go beyond healthcare. How could it? What is the fundamental pieces of that?

Expected, OPS, Deree, I think, a large open source ecosystem has your government partners, you know, or government contributors to it or if it's serving your government users does that matter you as a plus or minus.
Expected, OPS, Deree, So yeah that and then I have one more question after that.
Expected, OPS, Deree, So I don't think that it precludes government users, right, the broader the better.
The only target is government. That's probably going to be hard for us because once again we're another government agency. Are we paying you, the group, to grow the ecosystem by serving the government in an opposite? So we're paying ourselves. So that's how I want you to think about this. If it's really going to move things forward, I want to ask yourselves, what is the broader audience that's available? Is it just the government and why? And maybe that's too narrow. I do remember, I think we did have one around government.
and that was the nature of the dialogue, is this feels like it's too narrow.
Reviewers themselves can always think about what the broader community is, but it is incumbent on the proposer, the writer, to convince us, tell us what it is, not for us to try to think through it.
So that a good question And then a question specifically about Track three You talked a lot about open source products open source ecosystems And then the question is do the uh you have the security tools being applied themselves have to be open source Or could you take tools that are not open source to add security to an open source ecosystem for a track three project
Expected, and I think that's a big win.
Sure, and you're going to ask yourselves right reviewers and nsf is going to ask yourself if it's a non open source that's a licensed solution.
In the context of open source, how's that going to work.
Right so if you're taking something that's closed or that's licensed that requires a licensing around it then don't you have another problem beyond just the solution of the vulnerability.
Stephanie Fleminglyt, MediaPear, NCV, MediaPear, NUf, MF, Degda R. FeeMoC, P&D County, Degda R. FeeMoC, J.C.A., NUF, OAPT, TILLE, STAED AVERAGE GIF, TELEFGICIAL, MESA, IMESA, INCLUDES SOMEWHAT SHORE BUT I AM SO THAT WILL SEE.
Stephanie Fleminglyt, M. RAGE, ENERGY, WONDERCO, AS FAR WE OR ZE-L?
Stephanie Fleminglyt, M. RAGE, ENERGY, WONDERCO STAED TO BE CONTRY THIS, THE EMPLOYMENT STAED AT SOCIETY.
And that's a huge growth of research and a lot. We know we have a lot. I don't know why that does that. We know we have new entities or even seasoned entities that maybe have not been on research.gov or don't even know some of the other requirements.
We'll be scheduling office hours on this piece on August 5th. Our target audience are these new proposers or somebody that just hasn't been on the site for a very, very long time. It's going to be pretty mechanical, but important if you've never worked with us. I would encourage you, if you've never ever submitted to NSF, get on this August 5th webinar. We have one of the very seasoned r.gov, we say developers and supporters of this, Stephanie Yee. She's going to be leading that.
I be in the background in case we bump into anything that more programmatic But she and I have already talked about she and I read the scope of that versus the next webinar August 11th that I mentioned This is about proposal preparation I know many groups will not find this useful but I would actually encourage you to come We going to talk about some of those questions in detail about what do these I teams look like We going to talk about budgets as well because there are questions around for reviewers What the reasonableness of the budget And you might be thinking well I know how to do this I written a proposal before
Well, you may not have thought about this in the context of how it's looked at in this program. So that one should be proved to be very helpful if you've never proposed in TIP before. Very different than an R&D proposal. So both of these are on our schedule, August 5th, August 11th. How will you know about this? Reach out with us. There's a QR code.
Expected.
Expected.
I know that I can't.
You could put something in the mailbox.
We run through these as fast as we can.
We can't guarantee we always get everything.
We do the best we can.
I want to say that.
Tell us about it know what SCE if you have one.
And please let us know if you're interested in a conference that we're funded, we funded
on open source, we're calling it a summit now.
So we'd love to hear with you on that.
If you're not ready and you're feeling quite overwhelmed, or you just want to take your
time,
Expected terms.
We encourage you to be a PSOS reviewer.
It's the best way to get insights and to see how we think about this in the context with
real examples coming forward.
If you're proposing, though, for the September 1st deadline, you can't be on the first round.
But if you're not submitting until the March, we'll be finished with that round, and so you
can be a reviewer, as long as you don't trip up any of the other conflicts.
And then last, and that also will get you kind of looped in to getting these alerts.
And I want to thank everyone.
I know there's lots of questions.
I do think they're going to post this webinar on the page, which is nice, which is why you
want to have that.
We'll let you know if there's this other webinar if we need that.
Another hour or so, we're just going to jump into some of those.
And we're going to try to get these FAQs posted.
So you'll have the broader set of slides, along with these other FAQs that are a little bit
Amy Seidler, E.H.E.: And then, I would love to know if we have a question, to speak to many of our viewers, we want to make it more expensive? So, thanks to everyone for coming, appreciate all of the good questions and engagement.
Amy Seidler, E.H.E.S.S.A. Take care.
