TRANSCRIPT: 2026-08-07-NSF PESOSE Office Hours Technical Guidance for Proposal Submission
============================================================
Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1F9D6mzqvLQ


Stephanie Yee, Welcome to the US National Science Foundation webinar for PSOS, the logistics webinar on how to submit, create an account, get your roles to submit for NSF.
Stephanie Yee, So my name is Stephanie Yee, and I work in the office of the Chief Information Officer and my role is to basically I'm the point person between our IT service desk and our developers and our program.
This is my contact information. I'm going to go ahead and get started on what we will cover today. So this is a session that's mainly on the technical piece on submitting a proposal to NSF. It's meant to complement the program webinars that has been offered. And these are the key topics I'm going to go over. Just pure logistics, what you need to do before you even start your proposal in Research.gov,
Expected terms, some highlights of the sections that you need to upload or complete, that is more complicated or more complex. I'm going to go over some of our newer sections in case you are not new to NSF and then of course some solicitation specific requirements. I'll talk a little bit about Grants.gov as well and how to get help in case you are encountering issues and preparing your proposal.
All right, right from the top, you are here because you're interested in applying to 26-506, the PISO solicitation. The deadline for this is on September 1st, Tuesday at 5pm submitters local time. So I'll go a little bit over what that timeframe means.
Expected terms. So proposals can be submitted in two ways. It can be submitted through grants.gov or research.gov. These are some links, but this session is going to focus more on research.gov because that is the NSF custom-built application for proposals.
Expected terms Alright and I have on this presentation links to the relevant help links on that page Alright so I will talk about the submission timeline We do already have a generic timeline recommended timeline for people on when they should start their proposal when they should start these pieces There a link here Expected MediaPier Cs
I'm going to hop over to what you need before you even start.
All right, account management milestones. You need an account with us, with NSF.
But before you even start that, your organization, the organization that you belong to, you work for, needs to be registered with the federal government.
So the very first step, if you are new to NSF, you've never applied to a grant, is you need to register your organization under SAM.gov.
If you have not started this process, I recommend it's August 5th right now. Actually, now is a good time to start. But we give general guidance that you need to start this 15 business days before the deadline.
But I recommend doing this now. You'll never know what kind of hiccup you will encounter when doing that. So please register your organization through SAM.gov.
When you go through SAM.gov, I want to clarify what can happen when you register through SAM.gov. When you go through that site, there's, I would say two steps. One is you need to get a UEI number. So that is a unique identifier for your organization.
but that is this one piece. Once you get that number, the second part of that is you need to fully register your organization. That must be in place before you even can begin an application. So not to say UEI number, you're only halfway there, you need to be fully registered. I would say one tip for fully registration is you might, you will have an option to do, I'm going to apply for financial assistant awards only.
Expected terms if you going to apply for all awards choose financial assistance awards What that means basically is that you don need to go through the process of getting a CAGE number that is not required for NSF so that would shave off maybe a couple days in your registration process so that just a tip I have for you So start this process now Expected MediaPier Cs
Expected, DTBusiness days before we can see that organization. But once you get that registration, you can start in Research.gov and you need to register your organization with us.
Once you register your organizations in Research.gov, the next step is you need to start giving roles out to people who can do actions with your organization at Research.gov.
on the slide what you need at a minimum. There's many, many roles that you can have in research.gov, but to get through this proposal submission process, you need three roles or two roles.
Actually, three roles. One is the very first step is the administrator role for your organization. This is the person that has the most elevated privileges for your organization. They can update information about your organization, but most importantly, they can give out roles at your organization.
So that is the very first step. The only person that can register for an administrator role is the person who's listed on your SAM.gov profile. So when you register at SAM.gov, you do identify who are admins or the points of contact for your organization. Only those people can go into research.gov and make that initial organization registration research.gov. So make sure that person does all these steps well in advance.
and Expected terms of the requirements, 15 days, 20 business days before the deadline.
Once the administrator is in place, you can then start giving out roles as the PI.
You can give out the PI role and the AOR role.
Those are the two must have required roles to work on a proposal.
So that is the PI role and the AOR role.
I have over here on the right hand side an optional role.
This is called the Other Authorized User role.
This is a role that you might want to have to have somebody work on the proposal.
So they not officially on the proposal There might be helpers people who are just there to help edit documents to manage The name is just clickmins Expected here the call The PNG is shown by YouTube which is a link right
We can see all of these details about the time that were on the team.
I recommend doing all this the 15 days on the deadline.
All of these things I go over in the system so you can connect the dots of what you need.
This slide is regarding sub-recipients or sub-organizations.
This only applies to you if you plan to have other organizations as part of your proposal.
So they are sub-recipients or sub-recipients.
There are slightly different requirements for this if you choose to have this. So subrecipient organizations don't need to be fully registered in SAM.gov, but they do need a UEI number. So if you remember there's two phases to that registration, they only need that first part. They only need a UEI number. However, they do need to complete one of these two steps. So there's a step 2A and a step 2B.
These are your options. They can go all the way. 2A is that option. Your sub-recipient can go all the way, get full registration. It will save you some headaches but it's basically your choice on what you want to do. 2A, you can skip all the steps in 2B. They're fully registered. You can add them as sub-awards. It might take an extra one or two days to get that full registration at SAM.gov.
So the work is up front in SAM.gov. If you say, well, my subrecipient doesn't want to do that, they just want a UEI number and move on with their lives, that's fine. You would then have to do step 2B. So 2B, basically the work is then front loaded to research.gov instead.
Our system cannot read organizations automatically if they're not fully registered. So there's a manual workaround for people who don't want to be fully registered. They have to call our service desk and provide us this information and we have to add the sub organization manually. So build that in. It's either a couple days on the SAM.gov side or a couple days on the research.gov side. So these are their two options.
All right. And this slide is for Grants.gov users. I will say this presentation is not geared towards Grants.gov applicants.

Expected, S&M.gov side or a couple days on the research.gov side. So these are their two options.
All right. And this slide is for grants.gov users. I will say this presentation is not geared towards grants.gov applicants. I will tell you that everything I just explained, everyone has to do regardless if you're grants.gov or research.gov. But if you choose to do grants.gov, you have an additional step.
You need to also do registration steps in grants.gov. So this is an additional step if you are choosing to do grants.gov Alright, I'm going to pause there before I kind of jump into specific sections. Let's see if there's any questions to address. If not, yes, this is Florence. I don't see any questions in the chat, but I'm not sure did. I'm not sure the attendees understood that they could put questions in there.
Yeah, one of the questions that we mentioned last month is from the chat that we saw here on the chat on the website, I will look at your message and I will read what that we have if your organization looks at, they look nice and they were all the answers in the chat in the chat in the chat.
So maybe we give them a couple of minutes on, but I don't see anything in the chat right now.
Okay, yes, everyone can do chats and we will review it throughout the presentation and I'll answer them live.
the Expected, LX, then does a file upload.
So for each senior key personnel, including the PI or co-PIs, there are four required documents for each person.
They're listed here, but two out of these four documents need you to get this document from a system called Science CV.
So Science CV is a system not hosted at NSF, it is hosted by NIH, and that requires a different login.
Expected, Nsflogin, Nsflogin to get in there, but you have to use that system to build these two documents. So please give yourself extra time. I recommend that people work on these documents actually first, just because of how long it takes to get those documents. And there could be technical difficulties and getting to NIH and uploading these documents. So I'm just pointing out a slightly different, more complex requirements to get these two documents. We recommend starting on this 10 business days before the deadline.
Expected Slept.
I will go over this in the demonstration And here are some training resources and videos to help you through that All right I gonna be very brief on the next couple of slides We have a new to us at NSF a data management plan section In the past it used to be a file upload but now we have an integrated web form I will show you this in the demonstration and to show you how this works
Expected terms, it's meant to be very flexible. It's meant for you to put in your own user defined fields in there. So it's just a matter of just clicking through answering the required questions. It's meant to be flexible.
All right. Highlights of solicitation specific requirements. I'll try to hit on these and my demonstration. This is not meant to be an exhaustive list. I just picked these just because they were something that could easily
Expected arm and a great idea of the NPR, Ops, Degrees that we want to highlight to you one note, separately submitted collab proposals are not allowable. The option we'll be there on the screen but please don't use that. And we have a section called other supplementary documents.
Expected, M.D. This section is optional for most of NSF proposals, but it is not optional for this solicitation. So even though it says optional, it is not. So please look and review very carefully the solicitation. And in here we're expecting letters of collaboration and the list of project personnel, collaborators, and partner organizations.
I have in here some notes about this. It is recommended to be in a tabular format. I will note to everyone that this section is checking for page size. So sometimes when people have a tabular format, it sometimes can get too long and it will violate the page size. So I would say please be careful and making sure it's not violating page size.
Expected terms, project description. Depending on the track you're applying to, they have different page format requirements. Our system cannot check to know is not smart enough to know if it's a track one versus track three. So it's on you to make sure you are not violating the page counts.
Expected Alright and I going to transition from this PowerPoint slide to the demonstration But before I do to some highlights of things to keep in mind When you are uploading your proposal components please be mindful of the font requirements through the our procedures guide
and the other side of the screen.
And that's the one that we have a lot of different things about.
And then we're going to do our procedures guide.
We are looking for only these particular font families, Arial, Choreo, New, or Palatino, Linotype of 10 or larger.
We do have line spacing requirements.
There should not be more than six lines of text per vertical one inch of space.
Expected terms, you can see a lot of people do use LaTeX instead of Microsoft Word, for example. You do have a more complex system of creating these documents. Please, if you're a LaTeX user, test your documents early and often and use this link here. We do have a GitHub site for those users. They have unique requirements. They have different templates. Please test your documents. Don't leave it to the last day to test your LaTeX files.
Stephanie, before we move on, I just realized that my bad, the chat is closed, but the Q&A is open. So we have a couple of questions which I'm not able to answer, so I'm hoping you will. Some of these revolve around registration, the requirements around UEI, what's required. If you could go over that again, and I'm losing when I respond to something, so maybe our, oh, here they are. Let me just pull it over.

I recommend starting there. But if you want to cover all your bases, I would say create a ticket with them and with us, and then we can at least have two eyes to look at that question.
But I'm going to punt it over SAM.gov for that one.
Okay maybe I just be reinforced because I know there lots of confusion when we have multiple systems So we have individuals who might want to submit via grants and Expected What I hearing is you can do that but you also have to do some registrations around research I also hearing that SAM has its own help desk So could you just kind of reiterate for everybody the distinct differences between those in terms of when you trying to navigate a problem to remind yourselves that you got to leave plenty of time and the kinds of interactions that NSF may or may not have between these groups
So maybe you can speak more broadly. Yes.
Okay, great. So SAM.gov is not an NSF system. That is a federal-wide system for anyone that wants to do business with the federal government. So not just NSF, maybe Department of Energy, etc. So SAM.gov is where you need to start to register your organization, and they're a completely different website, entity, agency, and registration there needs and questions for that needs to go to SAM.gov.
We are a downstream consumer of anything that comes out to SAM.gov. So before you even start with our system, you need to be fully registered with the federal government before you can interact with NSF.
Research.gov is the core website for NSF to do any business with NSF. So Research.gov should be the second place that you start from.
from this is where you register your organization with us so we know who you are. It's the place where you tell us who is going to be the PI, who's going to be submitting your proposal. So all the roles will be dealt with in Research.gov.
That's where everyone needs to start. If you choose to go through Grants.gov, you can.
But you always have to start with Research.gov. You have to tell us who you are, who your organization is, who your roles are. If you choose to go to Grants.gov, your third step is then Grants.gov to do that.
I will tell people to make your lives easier. Research.gov is meant to be end-to-end, meaning you can start and end in Research.gov and you don't have to use Grants.gov. That is an option for people if they want to use Grants.gov.
I will be transparent with you. Most people who apply to NSF grants don't use grants.gov. They use research.gov. If you do use grants.gov or any of these third party system to system,

will be transparent with you. Most people who apply to NSF grants don't use grants.gov. They use research.gov. If you do use grants.gov or any of these third-party system to system
you can do that but I will explain to you in the demonstration that is challenging
because many of the required forms that NSF requires is not in grants.gov. So even if you submit a proposal through grants.gov
You will most likely have to log into research.gov anyway to complete the forms that grants.gov is missing.
So if you want to make your lives a little easier, I would say you don't have to go through the grants.gov path. You don't have to register through grants.gov and just keep everything in research.gov and the research.gov help.
and I will start with my academic work.
Marlon Kowalzadeh, P.S.P., M.A.S.: Fantastic.
I have another one related to that, just to reiterate.
And then I'm going to ask Marlon, another one of our PDs who's on the line, if he's seeing anything as well.
So if a university is a primary, a nonprofit is a sub, would that nonprofit also need to register with SAM.gov?
Could you remind us of that?
Marlon Kowalzadeh, P.S.P.A. Yes.
So sub award organizations, the only requirement we need is they need to have a UEI number.
Expected terms. That's all they need. So that is very quick to get, very easy. So you have to go to SAM.gov to get a UEI number. If you remember back in the slides of 2B, 2A, let me go back there.
Because our system at NSF cannot recognize organizations that are not fully registered, you would either have a choice. The sub organization, the nonprofit, would either have to go ahead and
in the search engine.
If you were to register their organization just to go all the way, then we will see that organization in our system. If they don't, and they just have a UEI number, no problem, but they need to have an open ticket with us at NSF, call research.gov and say, hi, I'm a nonprofit, I only have a UEI number, I did not fully register. I want to be a sub organization on a proposal, but I need to be manually added to your system.
Expected terms and that why we going to ask you for these pieces of information We need to know the UEI number the name the address etc Yeah I might add to that for PI that might be on the phone or co that if you having conversations about what the institution or your proposal needs you should probably want to loop in your business people because you may or may not be able to have those kind of conversations without your authorized organizational rep It all varies by organization So it really helpful if you pull those
those staff in, or those persons in, so they don't, you don't run into an issue at the last moment. So, but we have another question. And then, Marlon, if you are seeing anything you want to raise. I know we have quite a few. Let's see. Which one was this? Yes, this one is about permissions. And I know we've seen this a lot. So maybe you could speak to two things. Is what's the optimum strategy when you're assigning permissions, right? Because there's segregation of duties, and what's permitted?
Expected. So this attendee is asking, can the same person serve as the authorized organizational rep and a PI or a co-PI? So what are the rules around sort of the segregation of duties and who can sign up for the AOR position as well as another role?
Expectedtri AXpected, DyePscham, MediaPierre, UMPSypt, Q&A, SKA, MCEA, SRE.
GARI, AXanda, B.D.: that is number one person might answer a few years along with only on that subject matter without communication, one is normal to you, as a an independent.
Expected, D.R. and everything else that research.gov offers in terms of a role. We have organizations as small as one person that can apply to proposals at NSF. So the answer is there's no limitations in terms of who can have all the roles. You can have one person if your organization is that small. It is flexible for you to have one person for all these roles.
Amy Shanda- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Amy Shanda- I did I had previously said that started on a postschrift, where you have the, the team that comes together at all a lot of weeks later, then the the first slide for me.
Amy Shanda Now if for a week later you know there almost two weeks down after I was already out of school it is sort of um i kind of super scared to get excited from you until I think you did your job and at the moment I just wanted to present the project so as far as your project manager right it had to be interesting question because if I need to I have more knowledge yes I understand I could continue to Expected Limey Vashem Lises Dte P B FeeMoCap OBS Dth P I think is broad enough to share
Okay, I do want to see, I'm seeing some questions around collaborators, and I want to be, maybe call to your attention. There's a difference between letters of collaboration versus collaborators who may come in as a subaward or other.
So in our other upcoming webinar, we're going to talk about things about letters of collaboration. But if it's about a subaward, there are no limits on the page. But if you're talking about a letter of collaboration, there are some constraints. We'll talk about that in another webinar when we have more time.
Let's see.
Get some questions around for international participation. I see that Marlin's fielding those. That's great.
Let's see.
Yes, the webinar is going to be shared. So if you've attended or if you've been on our other webinars, just go to the PSOS website and we'll have this posted in a couple of days.
asimov, DekWord, E7, B6, TN, NUVMW, DekWord, E7, Cbio, TN, NUVMW, DekWord, LEM.
E7.
E7.
E7.
E7.
E7.
E7.
E7.
E7.
E7.
.
E7.
E7.

Expected terms, and the other thing that we have to do is to do is to do a lot of the page size.
So, you can answer that. It's kind of a straightforward.
So there's a question, Stephanie, about your reference that talks about the page max sizes.
And you say 11.5 by 8, 8.5 by 11. So they're asking, is it 8.5 by 11 or 11 by 8.5?
So maybe your reference on one of the slides was a little bit confusing.
Yeah. Could you go back to that and clarify?
So basic page size 8 by 11 the different dimensions that I mentioned is meant to illustrate portrait and landscape mode So it can be portrait or it could be sideways but it can be longer than that So legal size documents which are 11 by 14 I believe that not going to be accepted by our system So I hope that helps can be landscape could be portrait could be a mix it doesn matter
Okay, there's a question I think Marlon's asking about submission types. So he's answered that, thanks Marlon, around who can submit to the program. So he's taking care of this. This is, that is in the solicitation. So it's not just for IHEs, which you'll find, but there are all other kinds of many types of institutions. Let's see.
Expected, and I guess I can see that there's a lot of ways.
And so we're kind of in the Q&A.
But also talk about them more in the forthcoming Webinar.
There's a question, as a PI do I have to register a link to my organization?
So maybe you could talk, Stephanie, sort of through those principle again for people that are not used to submitting.
How does this work kind of collectively between the entity and the PI?
Yes, so I'm logged in in research.gov already and I want to direct everyone's attention to my profile. So I'm going to try to speak of this in the lens of someone who's completely new, maybe they're the admin on that organization. And I just saw a question of how do I know who's the admin on an organization? So when you go to SAM.gov and you look up your organization UEI, there's a list of names on there. Whoever set that up will say who is the point of the organization.
and the other organization is registered and we see that at NSF, we know who those are and we will actually show it to you on the screen. So I'm going to click on my profile.
Pretend I'm the admin. So before I even get here, I'm not going to sign out, but research.gov is a system that requires a login, an account to get in.
So before you even can start and do these things, every person, everybody at your organization needs to have their own NSF ID that you need to register so you can log into this website.
So please don't have one account that everyone shares that is not permitted.
Every person with a unique email address needs to have an NSF ID. So if you can see here, this is my NSF ID.

Expected, NsF ID. So please don't have one account that everyone shares that has not permitted. Every person with a unique email address needs to have an NSF-KID, so you can see here, this is my NSF-ID.
Expected, NsF ID. I'm not going to sign out, but there's a link here if you say, hey, I don't have one. Please register. Takes less than a minute to get and NSF-ID,
But imagine I'm the admin. I just completed my SAM.gov registration. I'm here at NSF. I'm going to click on My Profile.
My profile is what it sounds, what's your name, your email address, your phone number, etc. But what I'm going to draw your attention here is organizations and roles. I'm going to click on View My Roles.
So if you're new to NSF, this screen will be blank for you. For me, I have some items here. So if you're new, this page will be blank. So what you want to do now is add a new role. So over here, there's a link called add a new role.
Over here, you're going to see four boxes. You can ignore most of them, but the one the admin is going to be focused on is over here. It's the add and manage organizations. You're going to click on add organizational role.
Karina Prakashank, SkellyTridgrac.com, SkellyCam. Skuyakare.com, SkellyCam. This is how you are going to go through these steps. That's four steps where you can find your organization and register that at NSF.
Karina Prakashank, SkellyCam. So this is the UEI number. This is where you enter that number and you go ahead and search for it. When we search for this we have all the data from sam.gov of people who are registered.
registration at SAM.gov, you can't find yourself in this list. But let's imagine that you have already done that, everything is registered, so I'm going to show you what it looks like.
Ignore this message at the top. When you enter UEI numbers, so this is NSF, so I imagine I entered it, you're going to search on your UEI number and you're going to get results back that's going to look like this.
So you'll see your organization name, your UEI number, and someone asks, who do I know my admin? Who are those people? We know who those contacts are and they're going to be here. So when I click on this link, it's going to show me all the names that
Let see click next here You going to see something called SAM POC These are the only people registered for your organization that could claim that admin role So I recommend that if you completely new to this get your admin to perform this step and the admin is going to be the one that registered in SAM
So let's say I've gotten to this point. On the right hand side, there's a column called Registered with NSF. If you're completely new to NSF, this is going to say no.
And then your website has made it to the website.
Once you do that.
So it's grayed out for me because I'm already registered once you add your you I pull that information up that Sam dot gov admin is going to go through a series of steps we're going to ask things like confirm your time zone confirm your address confirm.
These this information for your organization and then you're going to submit it and your organization is registered at NSF.
And that Administrator is the person that can give out roles. So imagine I've completed that step. I'm the admin. I want to give out roles to people. So there's two perspectives on this. A person who has an NSF ID can request it. So your people or your employees can go in and click on Add Investigator role.
I think it's easier for the admin to just do all these steps because it's a one-stop shop, the admin has complete control.
So I'm the admin for the National Science Foundation and this is how I add roles to anyone that I like to my organization.
I'm going to click View My Users. So View My Users is a link that's only seen by the administrator and I'm the administrator.
So here I can see everyone that's associated with my organization. If you're new, this is going to be blank. There's a button on the right hand side called Add User. This is the easiest, most straightforward way to just start adding who you need as PIs or AORs. So I'm going to go ahead and just add a sample person and click Search. You find the person that you want to add. You click Continue.
And a popup is going to show for you of all the roles you have available to you to give out to this person My friend here George is already a PI So imagine that this is completely unchecked This is where you will select who can have what kind of roles and someone asked Can I have a person that a PI and an AOR Yes you can So here I going to select all of these roles and click Save
Once I click save, it takes up to 30 minutes for the system to apply this role throughout the system. So just keep that in mind. Don't be giving out roles or responsibilities on the day of the deadline. Please get this done well well in advance before the before the deadline.
Expected.
I'm going to pause there, because that was a lot to cover in terms of roles.
As you can see, there's a lot of steps for multiple people.
This is why we want you to do this 10 days, 10, 15 days before the deadline.
Any questions on this?
Yeah, let me.
I'm still scanning these.
We've got a lot of questions around indirect cost rates,
The applicable standards, whether it's the FAR or the UG. I'm going to ask, I put in the chat that those kinds of questions, if you send them in a PSOS mailbox, I'll be able to give you a fuller response. There's lots of questions I have, so it's a little bit hard for me to do on the fly. I do have, or just a question or comment. You talked about groups that are new to NSF and all of the requirements in Research.gov and SAM.gov.
R.gov. I wondered if it would be okay for me just to mention or remind groups. This is very different than the New Performer Review. So we won't touch on that today, but we will touch on that in another webinar. So there's a definition of new that relates to actually having awards, which is very different than what Stephanie is talking about. So we don't want you to get confused. There's a whole set of other requirements.
Student & And if you are successful and you are recommended for an award that you'll be required to go through. So we want to make sure that you are aware of those who go through that in a different webinar but wanted to separate that from the conversation that Stephanie is having about access to systems and working with the Federal Government through these online systems.
TammieCam SkellyTbrow Cahillac TiskeleCtbos R730 DTB Chm SkellyT BxE3Q SkellyTbos R730 DTB CthhB MeraFar CsRHCAT DTB C788 DTB C708 DTB Cs Akinah Tug with ChArUco OpoV Expected terms of relationships As a result I wanted to come back to this thing about list of collaborators
And the person is asking about the list of collaborators.
I'm ready to make sure that everybody's clear that there are letters of collaboration.
And then there's Stephanie, do you have this table?
I think it was one of the earlier slides that shows the requirements around that.
and others to see. It was early on. It had like a table and it says who are your partners, who are your collaborators, and then had letters of collaboration. It was like very early on. Yes, yes. I can go back to the slides after I do the demonstration and show you that slide. Yeah, let's do that. We have a question about what fraction of Phase II opposed awards have used subawards and is a lead plus two subawards structure typical here.
Expected terms.
The next question is, I don't think we can talk about this question or a fraction of phase two subawards because I think that's a programmatic question but
there's nothing stopping a team structurally from having multiple subawards in the system, is there?
No, there's no limit on subaward organizations that you can add to your proposal.
All right. So why don't we go on to the demo? In the meantime, I'll continue to go through. These questions are very good. So thanks to everybody who's putting them in there. And thanks for being patient with us as we move through these.
Thank you. These are great questions. All right, I'm in. And one thing to note is after you give out your roles, the PI is the only role that can even start a proposal.
So if you are that person, the pi will go in here. And you will know you are the pi or you have rules for that is that you have the link available for prepare and submit proposal.
And once you select, here you want to prepare new, you want to create a new record. When you click here, there's a lot of different types of records, but for our purposes we're going to select full proposal.
If you see full proposal but it's grayed out or it has a lock that means you don't have the PI role so check your roles. Once I select that if you happen to have more than one affiliation, some people do, you will get this drop down but for most of you you'll only have one affiliation.

Expected terms, you can see your roles.
Once I select that, if you happen to have more than one affiliation, some people do, you will get this drop down, but for most of you, you'll only have one affiliation.
To prepare a proposal, you have four steps or four questions that you need to get through before you even get to your draft of your proposal.
The first step is to select the funding opportunity.
There's a search box and as you type in a number it will filter down. So this is 26-506. You click next. Step two is where to apply. This is just showing you where this proposal is going. There's nothing you can edit here. Click next. Step three is to select your proposal type. The default value that everyone should be selecting is research. Click next. And step four is your proposal details. This is what you're going to do.
Expected terms.
This is where you will select a single proposal because separately submitted is not allowed for this, and this is where you enter your proposal type.
This can be changed after the fact, so for these purposes I will just put a test title, but for you, you will be selecting or entering which track you are applying for.
So actually I'm gonna say Track 1 as a test.
And then I'm gonna click Prepare Proposal.
If you make a mistake in any of those four steps, except for title, for example, if you put in the wrong number for the solicitation, you accidentally select collab, you would have to start over. Anything except for title, you cannot change after the fact. Add an extra test here.
I'm going to make this screen a little smaller. So just to orient yourself, this is where you'll be doing most of your proposal section uploads. This top section is required. The system is checking for a file in each of these. So as you start filling this in, you will see the compliance status have a little green checkbox or maybe a red X to say there's a problem for you to fix.
On the left hand side are your proposal actions This is where you will start doing things to your proposal printing it forwarding onwards submitting etc The most valuable button here for everyone is there a check errors and warning button I going to go ahead and click on that And this is going to show you everything that you must fix before you submit your proposal
So I just created this.
It's completely blank.
It's telling me that every single section needs to be corrected, which is fine.
If you see a yellow box down here, these are warnings.
And one thing to remember about warnings, they are meant to kind of tap you on the shoulder
to say to have a double check on this, but it won't stop you from submitting. So keep that in mind if you're kind of running tight on the deadline. The reds are what you must fix.
Go back to the main proposal page. And so I'm not going to go over all of these sections. I'm just going to highlight the ones that are a little more complicated. So everything is required. And remember, for your solicitation, if you read the solicitation, there are required components that are
Expected and your other supplemental documents and you have to upload those here.
This is an open section, meaning we're not checking for a lot of because for other solicitations there's a lot of other things that could be in here.
The hard stops for this is it must be within the correct page size, so eight and a half by eight by 11 and a half landscape or portrait,
and it cannot be larger than 10 megabytes. So please check for that. Alright, I'm going to click a little bit on Manage Personnel and Subaward and this is where your people or your organizations are going to be added to this proposal. I'm going to go ahead and click on here and kind of show you really quickly how this works. So when I click in here, this is where you would have the opportunity to add your subawardees. So I'm going to go ahead and click on this, kind of show you what this looks like.
Expected, M.D.S.E.G.A. So remember I said for sub awardees they don't need a full registration. However, there's a choice that you have to make whether or not you want to fully register, get it out of the way.
If you go that route your organization will show up on this list. But if you go the other route, you say I just want a UEI number, you still have to call us at NSF research.gov for us to manually add that sub award organization here.
So I going to go ahead and Virginia here So I just searched on Virginia It hundreds of results These are all organizations that have either full registration and Sam They show up here or they called us and had it manually added So those are the two choices for a sub awardee to show up on this list And then this is where you can ask some award organizations and there no limit to how many you can add
Expected terms, and then the other thing that you can add.
All right, managed personnel, you may be adding CoPIs or other senior key personnel or other authorized users.
For most of them, you can add people by NSF IDs or by their emails.
For senior key personnel, you can add them the same way or you can add them by name.
Nsfid. A common problem to have here is that when you're searching for people you don't find them. The number one reason that we find that's the case is because this person may not have a role yet. So keep that in mind. Get all your roles provisioned and everyone ready to go so they could be found to add to your proposal.
D'All right I'm gonna my time is short, so I'm just going to highlight some key sections that are a little more complicated that people just need to be aware of.
D'All right I'm just going to touch really briefly on project description, this is the largest part of your proposal it's either seven pages or 15 pages.
D'All right, so it's a feature.
Please note that depending on your track, your page limitations are going to be different. I'm going to go ahead and upload a 69 page document.
The validations on this is going to stop at 15. It's not smart enough to read the title of your proposal and know that it's track one or track two or three. So just be aware of that, that you have to do that compliance check yourself.
The hard stops on project descriptions are there no URLs allowed This is meant to ensure that you don try to bypass the 15 page limit So please please check your files often I see a lot of people get tripped up by the URL checks because they hidden links in your proposal It can be an image with a secret link or even text that contain www or HTTP can cause a file to fail upload
Alright, and just checking the time here. The only thing I just want to double to show everyone is the data management plan and to show you something that is meant to be there.
So the data management plan is a web form field. It's pretty self-intuitive. So, you know, follow the instructions on the screen. It's pretty easy to use. I would say just one thing to watch out for is as you add your data products, there's a series of big questions to ask. Please note that adding a product here, there's no predefined fields. So you might see some help guides online that has a
So if there's already different fields in here like software or maybe an article, etc. Just know that for different directorates or different solicitations there will be prefilled values, but for this one there will not be prefilled values. So for each of these you have to add your own. So here I'm going to say I don't know test product and you have to define it on your own. So it's OK, it's flexible. There's not meant to be any values defined here. You will define those.

and it's not the same as the proposal exists.
No one else at the organization even knows this proposal exists.
I just recommend as good practice that as you create the proposal, to share it right away.
This lets everyone in the AOR office or anyone with that role know that the proposal exists and that it is ready for people to update, to edit, to modify.
So I recommend us doing that. When you do that, it will send an email to everyone,
Letting them know this proposal exists, the link, and they can access it. I just recommend

to edit to modify. So I recommend us doing that. When you do that, it will send an email to everyone letting them know this proposal exists, the link, and they can access it.
I just recommend that people do that.
All right. Other things I want to highlight is this more for reference. On the upper right hand corner, if you needed help on something, I highly recommend,
So, looking at our help, it's a lot of stuff here, but I understand a lot of people don't want to read through a lot of help. The second best thing is to contact us. So here is our way of contacting our service desk. Our service desk is very good. They know how these systems work. So there's not a phone number per se, but there's a link here to our service desk. When you click on that,
Expected terms.
When it loads.
We have ported over all of our FAQs in here.
So if you ask,
I want help on the proposal, you will have all of these articles very easy for you to find an article that probably addresses your question.
If none of these work, there's a link up here called submit a request.
This will automatically create a ticket with us.
I highly recommend that if you create a ticket just fill this out really quickly and if it requires a phone call someone will call you. So this is a really easy way to get help.
Alright I'm gonna switch over back to the PowerPoint presentation so this will be a good time to ask questions.
Yeah, we're getting a lot of questions around collaborative proposal, collaborate tours, and letters of collaboration. So I think there's some confusion,
And so I'm going to try to break this out. And then if we look at that slide. So, a collaborative proposal is a type of an arrangement for how you submit your proposal. Right? So in theory, it's where all submissions are equal. There's no lead with subs. Stephanie, correct me if I'm right.

Expected terms a collaborator is an arrangement you have with the project or the group that is submitting the proposal So if you a collaborator in your role you have some relationship with the project or the proposal and a letter of collaboration is an expression
Jean H! K.DeeForge, Sfibrilant, DeguanD, Degang, of formal expression.
Jean H! K.DeeForge, Sfibrilant, Degang, of your role with the project, so the letters of collaboration and the details around what should be contained in those and how many are required or in the solicitation will go through that again in another webinar.
Expected terms, and the collaborative proposal type we'll talk about here in a minute. So I think Stephanie's going to show you these requirements on what you should put in the system. So this is that slide, Stephanie, that has the list of collaborators. If you remember, yes. I think there was another one as well.
and I'll see you in the next one as well.
Was it earlier that I showed it?
I think so. There you go. Right there.
Yeah.
So you can see the letters of collaboration are different.
This is what's required. We'll talk about the content in another webinar.
And then there's a whole separate list that's required as part of the supplementary docs that have collaborators, partner organizations, and project personnel.
Expected. And then, Stephanie, do you want to reiterate again this difference between a lead with subs collaborative proposal submissions and what's allowed with this program.
Yes. So I'll start with what's not allowed. So what's not allowed is what we call a collaborative set with multiple organizations, and each organization submits their own proposal. So if you remember that step four when I created the proposal, the
There is a radio button that said, yes, I'm a I'm submitting separately. So this is a complicated. Everyone has their own proposal ID. Everyone submits their own proposal that is not that is not allowed for this solicitation. What is allowed is a single proposal. So you are submitting a proposal and you might have organizations that are going to be working with you, but it is still one proposal number. And if it's awarded that only goes to that one.
Expected, MediaPengen, SkellyForge, Oaks, SSE and Expected, MediaPengen, SkellyForge, De La Concecho.
A Gece MediaPengen SkellyForge Ovencentra Paying SSE and Ed Souson with the final question as it is A Gece MediaPengen SSE and Expected Media Pagani SSE and Expected Mesa Rehwitt Menae Baebaert MD SkellyTekr RLF RRW RRINCIA FDWICKER RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW RRW R
Expected terms, and the P.I. could be the AOR, that decision about if that's feasible and allowable is made by the entity. So if you're a small nonprofit and you are the owner, you get to make those decisions in theory, probably. If you work for an academic institution, I'm going to guess that those decisions are made out of the institution, typically at a sponsored research office.
or business office. Did I miss anything, Stephanie? That's correct. That's correct. Could you remind everybody then, if they're all wondering again, remind them where they would go to find out who their AOR is? Because there's lots of questions like, where do I go to check to see where it is?
Rd, And to the end of the year, I have a great work.
Rd, Oh, well, who is my role?
Rd, So when you share proposal, I can go ahead and change the screen again.
Rd, I'm going to change the screen again.
Rd, I'll show you.
Rd, So when you are a PI and you say I want to share my proposal, there's going to be a link
CZxs, SkellyTw, ODN, MediaPoe, Rp, KJr, New Yorker, NYC, Rp1M, OPS, DeepSep, OBS, DtheDH, NAA, MAA, Dwe, NLU, MNSU, DT.N. Y.T.Y., Rp1M, MNNA, MNSU, DEEC, NLU, MNSU, DETST. DeepS, DTE, NLU, MNSU, DT.J. Rp3M, MNSU, DET.D. Y.T. SssellyT, NLU, MNSU, DTE Rp3M, MNSU, DT. Y.T. Y.T. DTE. Y.T. Y.T. Y.T. Y.T. Y.T. Y.T. Y.T. Y.T. Y
If they can't find it here, should they reach out at the R.gov site and they could help them? Is that a good place to go as well?
Yes yes If you are unable to find someone that can give you those answers you can also contact rgov at nsf and we can tell you who the AORs are for your organization
Okay. Lots of lots of other questions. I'm scanning these.
I'm looking down, I think we've covered most of these. We got lots of questions around cost, budget, what's allowable, what's not allowable. We'll cover that in a future webinar, a programmatic webinar. Some of those, oftentimes those are dictated by your institution, but the budget for sure is set by the PI. So we'll talk a little bit about some of that, but it's $2.58.
So Stephanie, anything else you want to talk about and then I can just maybe talk quickly about where the slides will be posted.
Yes.
How we're going to handle additional questions coming in.
Okay. I'll whip through the I was I'm going through the slides really quickly.
I do want to mention a little bit about grants.gov. There's a lot of people that asked about grants.gov. You don't have to use grants.gov. Research.gov is completely self-contained.
You can live in the research.gov world completely. You don't have to go out to grants.gov, but I will warn people that if you do use grants.gov most proposals submitted at NSF do not go through grants.gov.
Just because of how complicated that interaction is, especially, especially since a lot of the forms that we require are not in grants.gov.
So we give people these are all the things that we cannot handle through grants.gov.
Give yourself if you're going to choose to do this anyway, five at least five business days.
Do not try to submit a proposal in grants.gov on the day of the proposal because it has to
go through all these steps and you're likely having to fix them anyway and research.gov.
from there.
All right, so I'm gonna…
I think that's all I had.
A lot of the things on how to get help are on the slides themselves
with relevant contact information, and that's all I have for the slides.
And I can wrap up with any questions or final thoughts that,
Florence, do you think we should cover?
Yeah, I think we've covered most of the questions.
I've encouraged,

And that's all I have for the slides. And I can wrap up with any questions or final thoughts that Florence do you think we should cover?
Florence Pugh, Yeah, I think we've covered most of the questions. I've encouraged, if your question didn't get answered, I've encouraged you to put it in the mailbox, PSOS at nsf.gov. Some of these are very detailed and we want to make sure we give you the right references.
and there may be some back and forth. So please submit those through the mailbox. I'm trying to go through those as fast as possible. We will have these slides posted to the PSOS website. It'll take a couple of days. So these slides will be there. The webinar will be there, along with the recordings from the past webinars. We have two more coming up. One that's going to get into proposal preparation, budget, thinking about your letters of collaboration. The other one's going to be more generic, more broad about the program.
program. We've had so many questions. So that's all I have. Stephanie, thank you. This has been fantastic. Lots of good participation. And we look forward to seeing the slides on the website. So thanks to everybody who attended and please continue to submit your questions. We're hustling to get everything answered. Hopefully everybody found this helpful.
Thank you for your time.
Thanks, everyone.
Thank you.
Uh huh. Take care. Bye.
Thank you.
